JUDY WOODRUFF: Good evening.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
On the "NewsHour" tonight:
tragedy in Berlin.
At least nine people are dead
and many others
injured after a truck plowed
into a Christmas
market.
Also ahead: escaping a
nightmare.
After days of delays,
evacuations resume in
the war ravaged Syrian city of
Aleppo.
Then: Protests greet Electoral
College voters
as they gather at statehouses
across the country
to finalize president-elect
Trump's win.
Our Politics Monday duo analyze
the latest
in the transition.
Plus: a rare look inside Bruce
Springsteen's
personal studio.
The rock legend opens up about
his creative
process.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN, Musician:
Most artists
I know consider themselves to be
phonies,
along with the feeling that
there's something
that you're doing is essential,
essential
to communicate, and deeply,
deeply real.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: It's been a day
of horror in
the capital cities of Germany
and Turkey.
First Berlin, where a truck
drove into a crowd
of Christmas shoppers, leaving
the street
full of dead and wounded.
We get more now from Ira
Spitzer.
He's the Berlin bureau chief for
Feature Story
News.
And a warning: Some images might
be disturbing
to some viewers.
Let me start, Ira Spitzer, with
this comment
we just saw crossing the wires.
And that is the German interior
minister saying
that more information now does
seem to point
to an act of terrorism.
What do you know?
IRA SPITZER, Feature Story News:
Well, the
Berlin police have confirmed
that nine people
have been killed in the scene of
violence
earlier in Berlin, and one of
those -- one
of the dead was a passenger in
that truck.
In addition to the nine people
who died, at
least 50 others are injured,
some seriously.
So, the -- as you mentioned
there, the German
interior minister saying that
there are signs
here that point to a terror
attack.
No one has come out and
explicitly said that
this was intentional, but we
also heard from
-- the White House issued a
statement not
long ago, and they also
referenced that this
was possibly a terror attack.
So, investigations are ongoing
here in Berlin,
trying to uncover what happened,
but an important
piece of information here, the
driver, the
suspected driver of the truck
has been taken
into custody.
So much, of course, will hinge
on who that
person is and what they are able
to uncover
from him.
But, at the moment, police have
asked people
to stay off the streets in
Berlin.
There is an ongoing rescue
operation that's
happened at a Christmas market
right near
the heart of Berlin, so a tragic
situation
unfolding right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ira Spitzer, tell
us a little
bit more about where this
happened.
You describe it as a Christmas
market.
What exactly was the location,
the situation?
IRA SPITZER: So, this happened
in the district
of Charlottenburg, right near
the Gedachtniskirche,
which is a famous landmark here
in Berlin.
It is a church where they have
not repaired
the steeple from World War II,
so it's visited
by many tourists throughout the
course of
the year, and this Christmas
market is someplace
where thousands of people
congregate in the
month leading up to the holidays
here.
People go there with their
families.
They eat, drink, do Christmas
shopping.
So, Christmas markets are a very
big tradition
in Germany, a much loved
tradition in Germany.
And there also has been a lot of
speculation
in the past few months that
perhaps a Christmas
market could be the target of a
terror attack.
So they have stepped up security
across the
board.
However, at these open spaces
like this, it
is, of course, very difficult to
predict and
then to prevent an attack from
taking place.
Now, again, we don't know a
hundred percent
that this was an intentional
act.
However, the authorities are
certainly treating
it as such right now.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Ira Spitzer
watching this unfolding
story in Berlin for us, thank
you very much.
And, meantime, hours before that
Berlin incident,
the Russian ambassador to Turkey
was assassinated
by a lone gunman in Ankara.
Andrey Karlov was addressing an
art exhibition
when a Turkish policeman in
civilian clothes
opened fire.
He shouted slogans about Syria,
where Russia's
military is heavily involved.
The gunman later died in a
shoot-out with
police.
Russian President Vladimir Putin
and Turkey's
President Recep Tayyip Erdogan
condemned the
attack.
In the day's other news: Here in
the United
States, the Electoral College
confirmed that
Donald Trump's victory in the
presidential
race.
He was on track for 304
electoral votes, losing
two defectors in Texas.
Hillary Clinton lost four
electors in Washington
State.
Otherwise, it went mostly as
expected, despite
a day of demonstrations.
John Yang reports.
JOHN YANG: Election Day, part
two.
In some states, protesters urged
Electoral
College voters to dump
president-elect Trump.
In Pennsylvania:
WOMAN: I'm here today because I
feel like
it's the last chance we have to
really save
this country.
I mean, Hillary Clinton won the
popular vote.
I'm hoping we can make some kind
of difference
in the Electoral College.
JOHN YANG: The outcome didn't
change, but
controversy still swirls around
evidence of
Russian cyber-attacks aimed at
influencing
the election.
SEN.
JOHN MCCAIN (R), Arizona:
There's no doubt
they were interfering and no
doubt that it
was cyber-attacks.
The question now is, how much
and what damage
and what should the United
States of America
do?
JOHN YANG: Senator John McCain
and fellow
Republican Lindsey Graham have
now joined
with Democrats Chuck Schumer and
Jack Reed
to call for a special Senate
committee to
try to find the answers.
Senate Majority Leader Mitch
McConnell says
existing panels should handle
the investigation.
Clinton campaign chairman John
Podesta suggested
Trump aides may have colluded
with Moscow.
JOHN PODESTA, Former Clinton
Campaign Chairman:
What did Trump, Inc., know and
when did they
know it?
Were they in touch with the
Russians?
I think those are still open
questions.
JOHN YANG: Mr. Trump's incoming
chief of staff
said the president-elect isn't
convinced Russia
was behind the hacking.
REINCE PRIEBUS, Incoming White
House Chief
Of Staff: I think he would
accept the conclusion
if these intelligence
professionals would
get together, put out a report,
show the American
people that they're actually on
the same page,
as opposed to third parties
through The Washington
Post.
JOHN YANG: Mr. Trump is spending
the Christmas
holidays at his Mar-a-Lago
resort in Florida.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm John
Yang.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also today, the
Trump transition
team announced that he's naming
businessman
and veteran Vincent Viola as
secretary of
the army.
State legislators in North
Carolina appear
ready to repeal a law that curbs
protections
for transgender people.
The Democratic governor-elect,
Roy Cooper,
announced it today.
Republicans who supported the
law said that
they're now open to repeal in a
special session
on Wednesday.
The law has cost the state major
sports events,
concerts and corporate
expansions.
The head of the International
Monetary Fund,
Christine Lagarde, was convicted
today of
financial negligence.
A special French court found
that she should
have blocked a huge arbitration
award to a
business tycoon in 2008.
Lagarde was French finance
minister at the
time.
Despite the guilty verdict, the
court opted
against any punishment.
That left Lagarde's lawyers
questioning the
point of the proceedings.
CHRISTOPHER BAKER, Attorney for
Christine
Lagarde: The result of this last
five years
is nothing, which leaves us in
kind of a complicated
or strange, again, situation.
We have an unusual court, with
an unusual
hearing, with no accusation and
no sentence.
So, where are we exactly?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Late today, the
IMF's executive
board decided to retain Lagarde
as the managing
director of the organization.
In South Korea, the extortion
trial of Choi
Soon-sil opened today.
She's the longtime confidante of
the now-impeached
President Park Geun-hye.
Choi appeared in court in Seoul
wearing white
prison clothes.
She denied using her ties with
Park to make
big companies give millions to
foundations
she controlled.
Park has received extensive
immunity from
prosecution.
She, too, denies wrongdoing.
Cities in the north of China
were engulfed
in a choking haze of air today,
and the government
issued a red alert for a third
straight day.
Hundreds of factories and
schools were closed
and restrictions on driving were
in place.
Many in Beijing wore face masks
to try to
keep the smog out of their
lungs.
WOMAN (through translator): I
think it's very
inconvenient for going out.
I really don't like putting on
the face mask.
I can't go to the supermarket or
take my child
to play outside.
We spent the last two days at
home over this
weekend.
JUDY WOODRUFF: China's severe
air pollution
is blamed on its heavy reliance
on coal and
carbon emissions from older
cars.
Back in this country, the U.S.
Interior Department
set final rules to limit damage
from coal
mining.
They'd protect some 6,000 miles
of streams
by barring mining within 100
feet of the water.
Industry officials, though, warn
that the
regulations will kill jobs, and
the incoming
Republican Congress could well
vote to block
them.
The city of New Orleans today
announced settlements
in fatal shootings by police
after Hurricane
Katrina.
Two people were shot dead on the
Danziger
Bridge, and a third at a strip
mall.
The settlements in those
killings, and one
before the hurricane, total more
than $13
million.
MITCH LANDRIEU (D), Mayor of New
Orleans,
Louisiana: The city is here
today to try to
the extent that is humanly
possible to bring
closure to this dark, dark, dark
time and
to pledge that it shall never
happen again,
because, as I have said, change
is going to
come.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The settlements
are with 17
plaintiffs who sued over the
killings.
In addition, 20 current or
former New Orleans
police officers were charged in
federal civil
rights investigations after
Katrina.
A number of them were convicted
or pleaded
guilty to criminal charges.
President Obama today pardoned
79 people convicted
of crimes and shortened the
sentences for
153 others.
It's the most in a single day by
any president.
Mr. Obama has focused mainly on
drug offenders.
The White House says he has now
pardoned or
commuted the sentences for more
than 1,300
people, more than any of his
predecessors.
Wall Street managed modest gains
today.
The Dow Jones industrial average
was up 39
points to close at 19883.
The Nasdaq rose 20, and the S&P
500 added
four.
And Zsa Zsa Gabor died Sunday in
Los Angeles,
after years of ill health.
The Hungarian-born actress was
known for her
glamorous image and multiple
marriages, including
to hotel mogul Conrad Hilton in
the 1940s.
And she made divorce an art
form, once quipping:
"I am a marvelous Housekeeper.
Every time I leave a man, I keep
his house."
Zsa Zsa Gabor was 99 years old.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
Evacuations
resume in Aleppo after delays
and dangerous
conditions; protest greet
electors casting
their vote for the next
president; our Politics
Monday duo take on today's
political importance;
and much more.
The United Nations Security
Council demanded
that the Syrian government and
other interested
parties allow the U.N. to have
unhindered
access to Aleppo, so that
monitors can watch
those trying to flee that
war-ravaged city.
It was a welcome sight for
thousands of Syrians
trapped in Eastern Aleppo,
waiting in the
cold.
Evacuations resumed overnight,
after days
of delays, under terms of a
fragile cease-fire.
MAN (through translator): We
were very hungry.
God will take revenge on our
behalf.
Hopefully, we will return to
Aleppo.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Forty-seven
children trapped
in an orphanage were among those
rescued,
but the U.N. children's agency,
UNICEF, reported
some were in critical condition.
The evacuees were being ferried
to Idlib province,
widely expected to be the next
front in the
government's offensive.
At the same time, buses
evacuated civilians
from two Shiite villages in
Idlib besieged
by rebels.
The Syrian army and its allies
demanded that
evacuation in exchange for
letting thousands
of civilians and rebel fighters
leave Eastern
Aleppo.
Many of the evacuees were taken
first to the
rebel-held town of al-Rashideen,
west of Aleppo.
They received much-needed food,
water and
humanitarian aid, and, by
nightfall, they
huddled around fires to stay
warm, and recounted
the horror they left behind.
MAHMOUD ABU MOHAMMAD, Evacuee
(through translator):
We left Aleppo to escape the
relentless shelling.
All the houses were damaged.
Not a single one remained
undamaged.
We left because of the heavy
airstrikes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Late in the day,
Turkish officials
estimated some 20,000 people had
been bussed
out of Eastern Aleppo so far.
For more on what comes next for
Aleppo's evacuated
civilians and what U.N. monitors
will be able
to do, I'm joined by former
British Foreign
Secretary David Miliband.
He's now CEO of the
International Rescue Committee.
David Miliband, welcome.
I think it's pretty
self-evident, but why
are these monitors necessary?
DAVID MILIBAND, Former British
Foreign Secretary:
The simple reason for these
monitors is that
Aleppo has not just been a site
of terrible
death and destruction over the
last few months.
It's also been the site of the
destruction
of basic norms of international
humanitarian
law, not just the besiegement or
the randomized
bombings of civilian centers,
including a
hospital supported by the
International Rescue
Committee, but also
door-to-door, cold-blooded
murder by militias working their
way through
the city.
And I think it's very important
that there
are people on the ground who
can, by bearing
witness or threatening to bear
witness to
what's happening, try to put a
stop to it.
Everything that we're seeing and
hearing from
people who have fled the city is
that the
fear levels are at terrifying
levels.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But can they put
a stop to
it by monitoring?
DAVID MILIBAND: I think that the
monitoring
on its own is only part of the
answer.
Obviously, there's got to be a
decision from
the Syrian government, and their
Russian backers,
and the Hezbollah militias that
have been
working their way through the
city, about
what they're going to do next.
Obviously, the Russians voted
for this resolution
in the Security Council today.
Some people were surprised by
that.
And if it does mean a halt to
the terrible
scenes that we have seen over
the last week
inside Aleppo, that's obviously
a step forward.
The people that we're meeting 20
kilometers
to the west of Aleppo in the
governorate of
Idlib are concerned that they're
moving from
one killing zone into another,
because obviously
the great fear is that the
tactics that have
been used in Aleppo are now
deployed in Idlib,
which is 1.9 million people
across the whole
governorate.
The bombing, the murder, the
great danger
is that that flows with the
people to the
west.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I want to ask
you about
that, but when it comes to
Aleppo, is it believed,
is it understood that these
monitors are going
to be in a position to stop
whatever indiscriminate
killing or other terrible things
are happening
to these people as they leave?
DAVID MILIBAND: Well, at best,
they can bear
witness to it.
They're obviously not in a
position to intervene
militarily.
It's not a U.N. peacekeeping
force that has
been deployed as a result of
this resolution
today.
It's a group of monitors who are
unarmed and
who are there to monitor the
conduct of the
security and other forces and
report on it.
Now, it is right and better for
there to be
some degree of international
presence, but,
obviously, that is cold comfort
to very, very
scared residents of Aleppo who
have been the
subject of this brutal assault
not just over
the last few weeks, but over the
last few
years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, to the
point you were
making a moment ago, David
Miliband, the place
where these evacuees are going,
Idlib province,
as we reported, is expected to
be the next
front in the government's focus.
Why are they any safer there
than they were
in Aleppo?
DAVID MILIBAND: Well, I think
that the words
of the people who are fleeing
tell it all.
They say, we had to get out of
hell.
And they don't know where --
whether the place
they're going to is going to be
any better,
but there is a chance that it
might.
Idlib has a different
composition, population
composition, and a different
group of rebel
fighters who are dominant there.
It's an area that combines a
large government
with Idlib City, which is a
confined urban
area like Aleppo.
It's going to be a much tougher
military effort,
I think, on the part of the
Syrian and the
Russian forces.
And the great plea -- and I'm
afraid it is
only a plea from the
international community
at the moment -- is that the
tactics of bombardment,
besiegement and then
door-to-door murder are
not deployed in Idlib.
And in the absence of
international military
support, then it can only be a
diplomatic
plea that the way this war takes
its next
turn is going to be critical for
whether any
stability comes back to Syria in
the future.
You reported yourselves that
ISIS have been
resurgent in taking Palmyra.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
DAVID MILIBAND: And we know from
history that
the way wars are concluded is
absolutely the
key to whether or not there is
any peace to
be kept.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, I guess my
question is,
is there an expectation that
what these monitors
are doing in Aleppo could --
they could just
be moved next to Idlib to
prevent the same
kind of thing from happening
there and then
onto the next place where the
government is
moving in?
DAVID MILIBAND: Well, the
terrible truth of
the last few weeks is that there
has been
plenty on social media and
elsewhere explaining
what's been going on in Aleppo,
but it's not
been possible to rally any kind
of sufficient
diplomatic, political or other
pressure on
those taking part in these
activities to prevent
the kind of horrific scenes that
you broadcast
last week and that are feared in
the future.
This is now a real test of
whether or not
the Russians and their Iranian
backers are
serious about winning a
sustainable peace
in Syria, whether they are
serious about taking
on some of the rebel elements
who are affiliated
with al-Qaida, or whether this
is simply a
pretense and a fig leaf for a
wider attempt
to drive large sections of the
Syrian population
out of their homes as part of a
bloody attempt
to restore order.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Finally, do you
believe they
are serious, based on what you
know?
DAVID MILIBAND: Well, I have had
-- over the
last five years of this
conflict, the International
Rescue Committee has had between
1,200 and
2,500 local staff on the ground
through this.
And it has been the most
appalling descent
into hell for all of the people
who work for
us.
All of the norms under which
international
humanitarian organizations work
have been
violated.
Never did I think we would see
the day of
U.N. convoys being bombed.
And never did I think we would
go back to
the days when there seemed to be
no accountability
for the most grotesque abuses of
human rights.
So, I cannot -- of even human
life, never
mind human rights.
So, for me to sit here
comfortably and tell
you I'm confident about the
future would be
quite wrong.
This is a desperate situation in
Syria.
I have got my own staff in the
front line.
And we're desperate for the kind
of coordinated
and impactful political and
diplomatic pressure
that can ease some of the plight
of the civilians
and allow us to get on with our
work.
JUDY WOODRUFF: David Miliband,
the CEO of
the International Rescue
Committee, we thank
you.
DAVID MILIBAND: Thank you very
much.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, president-elect
Donald Trump is now one step
closer to officially
sealing his victory.
But the debate over the value of
the Electoral
College has intensified this
year, in part
because Hillary Clinton won the
popular vote
by almost three million votes.
William Brangham has our report.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: At the
Maryland Statehouse
in Annapolis today, a rare sight
for our cameras:
members of the Electoral College
gathering
to cast their official votes for
president
and vice president.
WOMAN: I vote today for Hillary
Rodham Clinton.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: After a simple
roll call
vote, Maryland's 10 electors
have spoken and
certified the official results
for the state.
Hillary Clinton swept Maryland
on Election
Day, and, as expected, she
received all 10
electoral votes.
In just 40 minutes, more than a
year of presidential
campaigning comes to an end.
But it's not just here in
Maryland.
Across the country today,
electors from all
50 states and the District of
Columbia gathered
to do the same, from
Pennsylvania and Virginia
to Colorado and Michigan.
Even Bill Clinton is an elector
in New York.
Now, in most years, no one pays
much attention
to this process.
The Electoral College vote is
something of
an afterthought.
But this time, electors have
been under a
lot of pressure.
Some even received hate mail and
death threats
because some voters wanted them
to change
their votes, and deny Donald
Trump the presidency.
We all know the White House
hinges on that
magical 270 number.
That's the simple majority of
538 electoral
votes.
It's a number Mr. Trump clearly
reached on
election night.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The Associated
Press is calling
Wisconsin, so that puts him over
the top.
Donald Trump is the next
president of the
United States.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: That's the
theory, at least,
because most states have laws
that bind electors
to cast their vote according to
the popular
vote in their state.
If they don't, they can be
replaced or punished
with a fine.
But some states do allow for
what's called
faithless electors, and they can
vote for
whomever they want, regardless
of how their
state voted on Election Day.
Now, these faithless electors
are pretty rare.
There have only been about 160
in history,
and they have never flipped the
outcome of
an election.
To have upended Trump's victory
this year,
it would have taken 37 electors
to change
their votes, and that didn't
happen.
There were a handful of would-be
defectors
this year, including ones in
Georgia and Texas.
They chose to resign as
electors, rather than
vote for Mr. Trump.
They were replaced today by
Trump supporters.
But only one Republican had come
out publicly
as faithless elector, Chris
Suprun from Texas.
CHRIS SUPRUN, Elector: I am not
voting for
Donald Trump because I don't
think he's the
right man for the job.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And Harvard
law professor
Lawrence Lessig, who briefly ran
for president
as a Democrat this year, argues
electors have
a moral obligation to vote their
conscience.
LAWRENCE LESSIG, Harvard Law
School: Our goal
is to let the electors exercise
their judgment.
The Electoral College was made
for this election,
precisely.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: But Trump's
incoming chief
of staff, Reince Priebus, says
these efforts
are just sour grapes.
REINCE PRIEBUS, Incoming White
House Chief
Of Staff: It's about Democrats
that can't
accept the outcome of the
election.
It's about delegitimizing the
American system.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: As they have
done in elections
past, the states will now send
their vote
totals to Washington, D.C.,
where Congress
will tally them in a joint
session next month
and officially announce the
election results.
DICK CHENEY, Former Vice
President of the
United States: Barack Obama of
the state of
Illinois has received for
president of the
United States 365 votes.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: For the "PBS
NewsHour,"
I'm William Brangham.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And, as we
reported earlier,
one additional Republican
elector in Texas
voted against Donald Trump,
bringing his number
of defectors to two.
voted against Donald Trump,
bringing his number
of defectors to two.
Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
building a memorial
for victims of a terrible
legacy; and an intimate
look at what makes Bruce
Springsteen a rock
legend.
But, first, it's time for
Politics Monday
with Tamara Keith of NPR and Amy
Walter of
The Cook Political Report.
And welcome to both of you.
A lot going on today.
TAMARA KEITH, National Public
Radio: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Namely, as we
just saw in that
report, Amy, that Donald Trump
is over the
top.
The outcome is not surprising,
but there were
a lot of protests, a lot of
noise made around
state capitals around the
country.
Is the Electoral College process
in any danger?
AMY WALTER, The Cook Political
Report: Well,
no, I don't think so.
There were a lot of protests,
but, at the
end of the day, there were nor
defectors on
the Democratic side than on the
Republican
side.
You had one in Minnesota, one in
Maine who
wanted to vote for Bernie
Sanders.
Now, ultimately, the state law
doesn't allow
that.
They ended up both casting -- in
one case,
an alternate cast for Hillary
Clinton.
But there were four in
Washington state, a
state that she carried, that
voted for someone
other than Hillary Clinton.
So, I don't think that we're
seeing a breakdown
of the Electoral College by Any
measure, but
electors are using the focus on
them to make
a broader point on the
Democratic side much
more than the Republican side.
One final note.
It's amazing how much winning
brings people
together.
And at the end of the day, the
Democrats were
the ones who lost.
They had more of a stake in
making a bigger
statement than Republicans, who
won, and they
just simply want to move on and
get the Republican
Congress and the Republican
president in office.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But, Tam, this is
a reminder,
though, that this election, that
a lot of
people are not content just to
let this election
sit, that they are going to go
on a protest,
even though they knew the odds
were really
long they were going to change
anything.
TAMARA KEITH: Yes, this was one
of the things
where people felt like they
needed to try.
So, people were contacting --
mostly people
on the left were contacting
electors trying
to do something.
There were a handful of electors
who wanted
an intelligence briefing.
Ultimately -- about the alleged
Russian meddling
in the election.
Ultimately, that didn't happen.
The person who won the Electoral
College on
election night won the Electoral
College tonight.
And it will be finalized and
made official
on January 6.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, let's talk
about the Russian
meddling piece of this.
Amy, you now have senators
commenting.
Donald Trump, of course, his --
the people
around him has commented.
The intelligence community is
united now in
saying it does look as if not
only did the
Russians hack the Democrats, the
Democratic
National Committee and John
Podesta, but they
did it to help Donald Trump.
What is the political fallout?
Where do we go from here...
(CROSSTALK)
AMY WALTER: The political
fallout becomes
very difficult, because it's
hard to separate,
at least in the minds of many in
the political
community, the difference
between Russian
meddling, which the intelligence
communities
agrees on, and Russian meddling
to help Donald
Trump, which then gets us right
into the political
and partisan debates.
And whereas you have at least
four senators,
two Democrats, two Republicans,
John McCain
and Lindsey Graham on the
Republican side,
and two Democrats with them,
saying we should
have a special committee, you're
not hearing
a groundswell from the
grassroots on the Republican
side and from Republican
leadership to support
a special committee.
Once you get into a special
committee to enforce
it, then it becomes partisan and
political.
And this entire debate about
Russian involvement,
you can't -- you theoretically
can separate
it from the politics, but we
really can't.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, where does it
go from here,
Tam?
TAMARA KEITH: Well, the relevant
committees
will investigate, the
Intelligence Committee
certainly on the Senate side.
That's where Mitch McConnell,
the Senate majority
leader, has said he thinks this
should be.
Obviously, John McCain and Chuck
Schumer and
some others would like a select
committee.
But it's not clear that will
happen.
It truly is remarkable.
If you took the names off of it,
and you just
said, Russia meddles in the U.S.
elections,
people would be extremely
alarmed, and it
wouldn't break along partisan
lines.
But because it is, Russia
meddled, Donald
Trump may have been aided,
Hillary Clinton
may have been harmed, suddenly,
it does become
significantly more political.
But we should also say that no
one is saying
-- people like John McCain are
saying that
Russia clearly did something,
clearly did
this hacking.
But John McCain, President
Obama, various
others are saying that election
systems were
not hacked, votes were not
hacked.
However, those e-mails were.
And they were leaked out at
inopportune times
for one candidate.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is there
hangover, though,
Amy, in all this from what
President Obama
did or didn't do?
He had a news conference on
Friday.
He defended his own actions.
Is there any lingering -- we
heard some pushback
from Donna Brazile, the acting
Democratic
Party chair, about what the
president said
about how he told Vladimir Putin
cut it out.
And she said, well, no,
actually, they didn't
cut it out.
They kept at it after he talked
to Putin.
AMY WALTER: That's right.
To go right on Tam's point,
there was very
little that the president could
do that wouldn't
have made this the partisan
political issue
that it is today.
And it would have been even more
highly charged
in the middle of a campaign.
And, at the end of the day, I
think the folks
in the White House, as with many
people here
in Washington, believed that
Hillary Clinton
was going to win on election
night and that
this issue brought up
post-election would
be less contentious than in the
middle of
a campaign.
JUDY WOODRUFF: I want to turn
you both now
to what we are just learning
about literally
in the last few minutes.
And that is Donald Trump put out
a statement
and has been tweeting, Tam,
about these incidents
in Europe, in Turkey.
He is lumping together the
assassination in
Turkey of the Russian ambassador
and the terrible
incident in Berlin with the
truck driving
into a crowd in a Christmas
market.
There was also a shooting at an
Islamic mosque
today in Zurich, Switzerland.
But he's saying these are -- I'm
quoting now
from his statement.
He condemned the Berlin attack,
said: "The
Islamic State and other Islamist
terrorists
are slaughtering Christians as
part of their
global jihad."
And he said the U.S. -- he said
civilized
world must change its thinking.
We don't have clear evidence yet
of what was
behind these attacks.
He's assuming that it's all an
Islamic -- or
an Islamist motive here.
TAMARA KEITH: And the civilized
world line
came in a tweet.
This is not new.
What is new is that Donald Trump
is now president-elect.
Donald Trump turning to Twitter
to declare
that something is Islamist
terrorism before
the broader security community,
before the
White House, before others have
been willing
to declare that, before
investigators have
been willing to declare that,
that is not
new.
He's done that before in past
instance.
JUDY WOODRUFF: We saw that
during the campaign,
Amy.
Do we expect that this is just
going to continue
when he's president?
AMY WALTER: Absolutely.
And then the question becomes,
what do we
do about it once he's in office
and hear,
of course, the broader dialogue
from him and
the people around him?
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we are --
as we have
known about these, we have been
waiting ourselves
to decide or to know what
exactly we can say,
because the German authorities,
the Turkish
authorities were only putting
out so much
information.
But it appears that Donald Trump
has already
drawn these conclusions, and so
we report
them.
Amy Walter, Tamara Keith, thank
you both.
TAMARA KEITH: You're welcome.
AMY WALTER: Thank you, Judy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Next: Of the
stains left on
our national heritage by the
country's history
of slavery and Jim Crow
segregation, perhaps
the least discussed is the
practice of racial
lynchings, executions of
African-Americans
done outside the judicial system
and often
intended to subdue black
communities into
passivity.
Hari Sreenivasan looks at a plan
to help bring
that conversation to the fore.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The plan is to
commemorate
victims of racially motivated
lynchings with
a memorial in Montgomery,
Alabama.
The design calls for some 800
columns, which,
upon closer viewing, reveal
themselves to
be suspended from above in a way
that mimics
a hanging.
Each will bear the names of
lynching victims,
over 4,000 in all, as well as
the date and
location of their deaths.
A companion courtyard will hold
duplicate
columns which will be moved to
the county
of the lynchings each
commemorates, once that
local community accepts it.
A recent $10 million donation
from sibling
philanthropists Pat and Jon
Stryker brings
the project closer to its
planned 2018 opening.
For more on all this, we turn to
Bryan Stevenson,
the founder of the Equal Justice
Initiative,
which created the concept and is
overseeing
its completion.
Bryan, thanks for being with us.
First, why do we need a memorial
like this?
BRYAN STEVENSON, Founder, Equal
Justice Initiative:
Well, I think we're still
haunted by our history
of racial inequality.
We are really burdened by this
legacy.
And I don't think we have
acknowledged it
adequately.
We terrorized African-Americans
at the end
of the 19th century and through
half of the
20th century.
The demographic geography of
this country
was shaped by this era of racial
terror and
lynching.
The black people who went to
Cleveland and
Chicago and Detroit went there
as refugees
and exiles from terror.
And we haven't owned up to it.
And I think we need to.
It took us 15 years to build a
9/11 memorial
here in New York.
And I think that's important.
I think it's critically
necessary that we
remember what happened on that
day.
But it's equally important that
we acknowledge
this history of terror that I
think still
undermines our ability to be
free, to be just
with one another, to kind of
shake the burden
of racial inequality that still
undermines
us in many areas.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This is part
of a longer
project that you have been
working on.
You documented, I think, 8,000
lynchings over
almost a 75-year period.
You even grabbed jars of soil
from each of
these sites.
Why?
BRYAN STEVENSON: The American
South is littered
with the iconography of the
Confederacy.
And there are communities where
the devastation
of slavery, where the
devastation of the genocide
of Native people has not been
acknowledged,
has not been recognized.
Lynchings provide an opportunity
for us to
go to very specific places.
Many of these acts of terror
took place on
courthouse lawns, in front of
schools, in
front of churches, in front of
places that
still exist today.
So, we have been asking people
in the community
to engage in acts of
truth-telling and acts
of recovery, reconciliation,
reparation.
I think we need that in this
country.
In South Africa, you have seen
that.
In Rwanda, you have seen that.
In Germany, you have seen that.
I think they are healthier
communities because
they acknowledge their histories
of mass atrocity
and violence.
I think we're less healthy
because we haven't
talked about the genocide of
Native people,
we haven't talked about slavery,
we haven't
talked about lynching.
And I think, to get there, we're
going to
have to do these tasks.
We're going to have to take
these steps.
And the community involvement,
the soil collections
are part of that process.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The countries
you mentioned,
they didn't get there very
quickly.
There was resistance.
Is there resistance, especially
in the South
in the United States, when you
bring up the
idea of this memorial?
BRYAN STEVENSON: I think there
is certainly
a reluctance.
We have denied this history for
a long time.
I think we have become such a
punitive society.
We have the highest rate of
incarceration
in the world.
I think a lot of people are
afraid to talk
about slavery, are afraid to
talk about lynching
and segregation because they
fear they will
be punished.
We don't have an interest in
punishing America
for this history, but we don't
believe we
can be free until we acknowledge
this history.
Issues of police violence,
issues of discrimination,
issues of lack of diversity are
rooted in
an absence of truth-telling
about our history.
And so we have to just persuade
people that
there is something powerful and
positive and
beautiful that can come when we
acknowledge
these histories, however
painful, and make
our ways forward.
Germany is a nation that we
trust more today
because they don't have these --
they don't
have statutes to Adolf Hitler.
They don't celebrate the Nazis.
Rwanda is a healthier place
because they have
acknowledged that legacy.
So is South America.
I think America has to replicate
that if we're
going to really be free.
HARI SREENIVASAN: I tried to
give a group
description of what it looks
like or what
it will look like, but what are
you hoping
that people take away if they
walk through
and visit the space?
BRYAN STEVENSON: I hope people
will begin
to think differently about who
we are and
what our past is.
You know, this donation comes
from Jon and
Pat Stryker, who are honoring
their father,
who stood for civil rights, who
understood
the importance of civil rights.
And I think we have to create
spaces.
The Holocaust memorials are very
powerful
places.
You walk through them, you
understand things,
you come out and you say never
again.
And I think we need to create
spaces in America
where we begin to confront this
history of
racial inequality and we walk
out and we say
never again.
We want them to be sober places.
We want them to be informational
places, but
we also want them to be places
where there's
beauty, where there's hope,
the chance for transformation.
And I think we can do that.
But we can't do it without
spending more time
creating the kind of cultural
infrastructure
that I hope this memorial will
contribute
to.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Is there a
through-line
or a legacy of lynching in the
criminal justice
system today?
BRYAN STEVENSON: Oh, absolutely.
I mean, you know, at the end of
the Civil
War, we didn't really deal with
the great
evil of American slavery.
The great evil of American
slavery was an
involuntary servitude of forced
labor.
I believe the great evil of
American slavery
was the narrative of racial
difference that
we created to legitimate it.
And because we didn't address
that in the
13th Amendment, I don't think
slavery ended.
I think it just evolved.
And what we did in this country
is, we began
to criminalize black people.
In the late 19th century,
convict leasing
was a new kind of slavery, where
we put black
people in jails and prisons, and
then leased
them to do the same work they
would have done
as enslaved people.
And that narrative of
criminality was very
much behind lynching, even
though black people
were being lynched for things
like not using
the colored entrance, for asking
for better
wages, for scolding white
children.
Elizabeth Lawrence was lynched
in Birmingham,
Alabama, because she told white
kids to stop
throwing stones at her.
And even though these acts were
not crimes,
they challenged this racial
hierarchy.
They challenged this narrative
of racial difference.
And so we used the apparatus of
punishment,
the narrative of punishment to
carry out these
lynchings.
And when lynchings were shut
down because
of federal pressure, they moved
indoors.
And we had a criminal justice
system and still
have a criminal justice system
that operates
where too often there are
presumptions of
dangerousness and guilt that get
assigned
to black and brown people.
The wrongful convictions, the
overincarceration
of people of color, these
disparities in sentencing
are rooted in this history of
criminalizing
and demonizing people of color
that is made
most dramatic in this era of
lynching.
And I think, if we understand
it, we will
do better at overcoming it.
But we have to understand it
first.
And that's why these projects on
slavery and
lynching, for me, are so
critical.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Bryan
Stevenson of the Equal
Justice Initiative, thanks for
joining us.
BRYAN STEVENSON: Thank you.
JUDY WOODRUFF: He was proclaimed
rock's next
big thing in 1975, and he became
the real
thing with albums like "Born to
Run," "Darkness
on the Edge of Town," "Born in
the USA," and
many more.
Now Bruce Springsteen tells his
own story
in a memoir.
Jeffrey Brown paid him a visit
to hear first-hand.
JEFFREY BROWN: In his new
memoir, Bruce Springsteen
looks back at his young,
struggling and then
little known self and writes: "I
wasn't modest
in the assessment of my
abilities.
Of course, I thought I was a
phony.
That is the way of the artist.
But I also thought I was the
realest thing
you had ever seen."
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN, Musician:
That's right.
Most artists I know consider
themselves to
be phonies, along with the
feeling that there's
something that you're doing is
essential,
essential to communicate, and
deeply, deeply
real.
JEFFREY BROWN: Springsteen has
been rocking
his way through marathon,
arena-sized concerts
for decades, a kind of
working-class rock
'n' roll hero to millions of
devoted fans.
In the recording studio he built
at this rural
New Jersey home, we talked about
becoming
Bruce Springsteen, the story he
tells in his
book, "Born to Run."
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: It was a very
different
type of writing from
songwriting.
JEFFREY BROWN: In what way?
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: A pop song is
a condensed
version of a life in three
minutes, whereas,
when you go to write your prose,
you have
to find the rhythm in your
words, and you
have to find the rhythm in the
voice that
you have found and the way
you're speaking.
JEFFREY BROWN: What about that
voice, though?
Because in songs -- I think of
writers I have
talked to, or poets, and there's
always the
question of, how much of that is
you?
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: I would say,
in your memoir,
it's you.
I think that, when you're
writing your songs,
there's always a debate about
whether, is
that you in the song?
Is it not you in the song?
JEFFREY BROWN: What's the
answer?
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: So, every
song has a piece
of you in it, because just
general regret,
love.
You have to basically zero in on
the truth
of those particular emotions.
And then you can fill it out in
any character
and in any circumstance that you
want.
If you have written really well,
people will
swear that it happened to you.
JEFFREY BROWN: Springsteen grew
up in the
working-class town of Freehold,
New Jersey,
of Italian and Irish stock,
adored and spoiled
by his mother and grandparents,
ignored and
denigrated by a brooding,
drinking, distant
father, a figure who would
obsess him personally
and musically.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Initially, I
had my conversations
with him through my music.
And that was the most effective,
not the greatest
way to do it, but it was
certainly -- it was
the most effective for us.
JEFFREY BROWN: I mean, but you
write early
on, "When my dad looked at me,
he didn't see
what he needed to see."
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Yes.
Now...
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, you're
going, yes, now,
but I mean, that's hard when
you're a young
boy.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: It is hard.
It is hard.
I think that it's a natural
thing for parents
to look for reflections of
themselves in their
children and feel a certain
pride there.
So if your child is very, very
different,
or perhaps if he's very, very
similar, it
makes you uncomfortable.
So, there was a lot of that when
I was young,
and it took a long time to get
through.
JEFFREY BROWN: Reconciliation
would come later,
along with an understanding of
the role of
depression in his father's and
his own.
From the beginning, though, the
young Springsteen
showed a ferocious drive and
sense of his
own mission, first as a king of
the bar bands
in Central and South Jersey.
I started to make a list of the
clubs you
played early on.
These are not high-rent places,
right?
The Angle Inn Trailer Park,
Cavatelli's Pizza,
the I.B.
Club, Surf and the Sea Beach
Club, Long Branch
Italian American Club, the
Pandemonium Club.
You probably remember each and
every one of
them.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Yes, I
remember those a
lot more than some of the
Madison Square Garden
and other things.
JEFFREY BROWN: Is that right?
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Of course.
They were all so distinctive in
their own
way, and they all drew their own
little clique
of kids.
And it was such a formative
moment in your
life that, you know, you were
just coming
into being.
JEFFREY BROWN: You write about
your voice.
You say, about my voice, "First
of all, I
don't have much of one."
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Right?
But you worked at it.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Initially
just sounded
awful, just so terribly awful,
but there was
nothing I could do about it.
So, I just kept singing and kept
singing and
kept singing.
And I studied other singers, so
I would learn
how to phrase, and learn how to
breathe.
And the main thing was, I
learned how to inhabit
my song.
JEFFREY BROWN: Which means what?
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: What you were
singing about
was believable and convincing,
that's the
key to a great singer.
A great singer has to learn how
to inhabit
a song.
You may not be able to hit all
the notes.
That's OK.
You may not have the clearest
tone.
You may not have the greatest
range.
But if you can inhabit your
song, you can
communicate.
JEFFREY BROWN: The early songs,
though, are
what I would call, like, word
drunk.
They're so many words in there
that you're
barely catching your breath as
you're singing
them.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Well, I was
influenced
by Dylan very intensely.
And I had a rhyming dictionary.
A man armed with a rhyming
dictionary is a
dangerous man.
(LAUGHTER)
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: So, yes, the
words came
fast and furious.
JEFFREY BROWN: A dictionary and,
more important,
a great band, the E Street Band,
which includes
singer Patti Scialfa, his wife
since 1991.
Springsteen never liked his
nickname, the
Boss.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: I had no
credit cards.
I had no checks.
I was cash only until I was
probably 30 years
old.
JEFFREY BROWN: But the Boss is
what he became,
deciding early on that, to
endure, he would
have to treat music like a
business.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Well, that
has to happen.
If you're a band leader, you
need that type
of discipline and dedication in
the guys you're
playing with.
We came from where
professionalism wasn't
a dirty word, as I say.
And so we worked like the old
soul bands worked,
very intensely, and very
methodically, in
great detail.
JEFFREY BROWN: You even call it
a benevolent
dictatorship.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: That's what
it is.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's what it
is.
(LAUGHTER)
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Small unit
democracy, I
found early on, didn't work for
me.
And the band contributes
enormously.
I wouldn't have gotten anywhere
near where
I was without them.
But it's basically the buck
stops here sort
of situation.
JEFFREY BROWN: But are you a
control freak?
That's sort of the what -- I
think you say
that.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Yes, I am,
probably less
now than I used to be.
I think, when I was young, I was
-- because
you're insecure, you really --
you're very
controlling.
Now I'm moderately controlling,
I would say.
JEFFREY BROWN: But you use that
word insecure,
because, frankly, I'm reading
this thing,
and it's such a mix of sort of
insecurities
and sense of self.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: That's the
artist's way.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's the
Explain that to me.
(LAUGHTER)
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Most artists
I know had
one person in their life who
told them they
were the second coming of the
baby Jesus,
and another person that told
them they weren't
worth anything, and they
believed them both,
you know?
And so you go through the rest
of your life
in pursuit of both of those
things, proving
that both of those things are
true.
And you feel like the burden of
proof is on
you.
It doesn't matter what happened
last night
or the night -- or tomorrow
night.
It's all about what you're doing
with this
audience right now.
And insecurity, natural part of
being an artist.
JEFFREY BROWN: It is always
there.
BRUCE SPRINGSTEEN: Along with a
driving, driving,
driving ego, a vanity, and the
self-confidence.
So you have got to have both of
those things.
That's what makes it
interesting.
That's what makes someone --
that's what makes
you want to watch someone, or
want to listen
to someone, are those particular
complexities.
JEFFREY BROWN: My conversation
with Bruce
Springsteen continues tomorrow
night with
a look at his lifelong bouts of
depression,
his love of reading, and the
election of Donald
Trump.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Jeffrey Brown.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to our
"NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye
that might be
JUDY WOODRUFF: Now to our
"NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye
that might be
of interest to you, too.
Every December, hundreds of tuba
and euphonium
players gather in cities around
the world
to perform holiday tunes.
We recently spoke with Chris
Quade, one of
the organizers of TubaChristmas
at Washington,
D.C.'s Kennedy Center, about
what makes the
events so special.
CHRIS QUADE, TubaChristmas: My
name is Chris
Quade.
I'm one of the coordinators of
TubaChristmas.
I'm also the emcee.
The original TubaChristmas was
in New York
City, and that was 1973.
In 1974, they started D.C.
TubaChristmas.
People thought of the tuba as a
back-row instrument,
shouldn't play too soft, because
it can't,
shouldn't play too fast, because
it can't.
To me, TubaChristmas represents
breaking out
of the tuba stereotype.
It's been the same music for 43
years.
The arrangements work.
They are interesting enough to
hold the attention
of the players.
They are simple enough to put
together in
one rehearsal.
They lay in a good range, and
they have the
right amount of fast and slow.
I think the magic of those
arrangements is
really what makes this work.
It's great because it is
timeless.
We can't play top 40.
We'd have to change the book
every year.
And it's tubas.
Top 40 doesn't really work.
It's a kind part concert, part
educational
experience, part reunion.
I think every year, I imagine,
come on, they
are going to traipse in from
miles and miles
away into the city and come up
just to do
this?
It's a pain, right?
And they come all the time.
And there are so many young
players.
That's the thing that gets me
every year.
They're excited by it.
This is fun.
If you have children come here,
and they have
got a book of music in front of
them, and
everyone is very somber, they
are going to
be much more nervous about what
they are doing.
If you have lights on this tuba,
and garland
on this tuba, and this guy's got
reindeer
antlers, it creates an
atmosphere where you
are just trying to have fun.
TubaChristmas, 300 tuba players,
and it's
a beautiful sound.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tubas at
Christmas, Bruce Springsteen.
You have got to love tonight's
show.
So, on the "NewsHour" online
right now: What
was the best book you read in
2016?
Our staff at the "NewsHour"
shares their favorites
with you, whether you're looking
for your
next good read or shopping for
holiday gifts.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Judy Woodruff.
Join us online and again right
here tomorrow
evening.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.
For all of us at the "PBS
NewsHour," thank
you, and good night.